---
layout: post
title: "from django.contrib.wedding import blog"
description: "My quest to write a wedding site"
category: wedding
tags: [wedding, python, googleappengine, code, virtualenv, django, django-norel, bootstrap]
---

So I looked around a lot of wedding sites; TheKnot.com, wedsite.com (cute
name) and others but none of them really did want I wanted.  They all seem to be
relatively good theme wise but I wanted something a bit more flexible and not to
just be sold wedding stuff.  I really did try to not write my own wedding CMS...

My buddy keeps banging on about Google App Engine and so I thought I'd give that
a try.  Sexily it lets me write in GoLang if I want but I thought that might be
a bit much for something I want to work.  So I stuck with Python - I can at
least pretend to know what I'm doing there :).

I've looked at Django before and did the tutorial, so I thought this was as good
a choice as any (I briefly considered Pylons but ... I just don't really have
the time to learn another framework).

So it turns out, to back Django without a relational database is slightly
interesting.  There's a special flavour of Django called django-norel which can
be used with Mongo and GAE which I used.

http://djangoappengine.readthedocs.org/en/latest/db.html

To make things look pretty, I also integrated with django-bootstrap3 so I don't
have to write much CSS.

http://django-bootstrap3.readthedocs.org/en/latest/installation.html

As part of this I decided I should really wrap my python up in virtualenv, but
annoyingly, AppEngine doesn't really know about virtualenv.  It'd be
really cute if I could just give App Engine my requirements and have it do the
right thing, but as it stands it doesn't really work in concert which is a
shame.  I guess this is part of their library management policy.

https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/tools/libraries27

However after writing so much Node.JS this seems like it should be a
non-problem.  I'm reading more about it and there are a few people who written
scripts to fix things up between virtualenv and GAE but they all look fairly
hacked up.

Since I'm being all webby, almostwife and myself decided to try and be a bit
Agile with how I made the site.  We've gone through one sprint and have a vague
idea of what's happening for the next two.

... to be continued...

{% include JB/setup %}
