---
layout: post
title: "curl raspbmc; modprobe usbtouchscreen; git clone linux"
description: "Adventures with raspbmc 13.0"
category: xbmc
tags: [xbmc, raspberrypi, linux]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I've not been very good at keeping this up to date.  However CSP coursework is
now finished, which I'll talk more about later.

So recently I procured a fairly big touchscreen, and given that I have now two
raspberry pi's with absolutley no idea what I should use them for I decided I
should make them do things together.  Ideally I want this to be a standalone
screen with just the touchscreen and the raspberrypi running
[raspbmc](http://www.raspbmc.com).

Now that XBMC Gotham is out, I decided to take advantage of it's touchscreen
support.  Just installing it fresh from raspbmc seemed to do something as it
comes out of standby when I touch it, but nothing is happening on the UI.
Checking the terminal, xbmc.bin is looking at /dev/input/event# so it at least
has the device open.

In previous adventures with the touchscreen I've noted that the callibration is
completely off and so far I haven't found a way to callibrate the screen from
XBMC.  At this point I realised I had no idea how input devices really work in
linux so I poked around in the xbmc source tree and in
[xinput_callibrator](https://github.com/tias/xinput_calibrator) to see whether I
could figure it out.  I'd used this tool in the past to slightly callibrate the
touchscreen - but it requires some sort of windowing manager to run, whereas I'd
prefer xbmc to stay running standalone as it does in raspbmc.

It looks like once linux determines it has valid drivers a module called
usbtouchscreen is used to do all the touch config.  So I'm cloning the linux
kernel to see what that does.  xinput_callibrator seems to be poking values in
there to configure the touchscreen parameters, and I'm hoping to get to a point
where I can callibrate from xbmc if I rebuild it.

However another problem that has arrisen is that periodically the touchscreen is
dettaching from linux...  I'm hoping this is just the lack of decent power from
the raspberrypi.

To be continued...
